# Paper title and data availability
This repository contains codes for the paper entitled "Crystal graph convolution neural networks for fast and accurate prediction of adsorption ability of Nb2CTx towards Pb(II) and Cd(II) ions" authored by Zeeshan Haider Jaffari, Ather Abbas, Muhammed Umer, Eun-Sik Kim and Kyung Hwa Cho, also known as the WEIL group at UNIST, Korea. File name "Raw_data" contains the data set of 2,600 crystal geometries for each heavy metal ions used in this study to build CGCNN model. Besides, The published article can be found on
# Brief introduction
2D MXene materials have gained significant attention for wastewater treatment due to their tunable structural properties. However, it has been difficult to develop a sustainable and environmentally friendly synthesis method for these materials, and it is also difficult to predict their wastewater treatment performance. While electronic structure calculations using DFT can accurately predict this performance, they are too time-consuming and costly. For this reason, we developed a CGCNN model to effectively predict the adsorption performance of Nb2CTx at arbitrary adsorption sites for Pb(II) and Cd(II) ions in an aqueous solution. By considering the atomic features and distance between each node and its neighboring features, our model was able to learn the complete geometric information for the material. The prediction results showed a DFT-level of precision with a much higher R2 and lower errors, while also being significantly faster and less computationally expensive. The predicted results were also experimentally validated. 

# Findings
In the present study, we employed an artificial intelligence route to predict the adsorption capability of two-dimensional niobium carbide (Nb2CTx) at arbitrary adsorption site for lead (Pb(II)) and cadmium (Cd(II)) ions. A crystal graph convolution neural network (CGCNN) model was applied to predict the adsorption capability of Nb2CTx with the results indicating that Pb(II) ions had a higher adsorption energy than Cd(II) ions with a mean absolute errors and root-mean-squared errors less than 0.09 eV and 0.16 eV, respectively. The proposed CGCNN model has a similar prediction as the ab initio DFT calculations, yet significantly rapid and economical. Finally, the adsorption capabilities of Nb2CTx synthesized using a fluorine-free route was also experimentally verified, and the results were consistent with the DFT calculations and CGCNN predictions. In addition, the synthesized Nb2CTx exhibited a higher recycling potential over five successive runs. Collectively, these findings indicated that the proposed technique is highly efficient in investigating the adsorption performance of the materials and can be further extended for use in the removal of other hazardous pollutants from aqueous environments.
# Correspondance
If you feel any dificulties in executing these codes, please contact us through email on jaffarizh@hotmail.com or ather_abbas786@yahoo.com. Thank you
